Now let's complete our course with a small refactoring here.
So at the moment we have two services, user service and authentication service, but the user service
is doing some of the roles that can be handled in the authentication service, like sending the authentication
related request here.
Since now we have this authentication service, let's move these functionalities to that one.
Let's start with the authenticate first, just cutting this one and let's open the authentication service
and pasting right here.
Now we are going to make this atypical.
And so first, let's inject that.
So we need HTP client specific lines.
Now in the logging, we were calling the authenticate method in the user service to send the authentication
request.
Then after receiving the success response, we were calling the authentication service, said logged
in user to set the user in the transaction state.
But now we are going to handle the both of these actions in this authentication service, this authenticate
method.
Response received for this request is having the logged in user information so we can pass that data
to the function here to update both both the user and the local storage.
So let's do that.
So we will use our exchange functionality and we will use the pipe to to check the, the values we are
receiving.
And then we will use another functionality which is called us TAP.
This is coming from Alex.
So in this one, we are able to apply the side effects without altering the payload.
So like we can take the body.
This is the response body that we are processing in the logging component, like, like here.
But here we can take the body as well and we can do additional controls like let's do that.
If there is body then we can just call this said look the user this said look, the user with this body
object, but we need to cast it to the user first so we know that this request is returning back.
The user object we are looking for and here in this this authenticate function, we are checking the
received response and updating the said logged in user accordingly.
Or if we receive an error, we can throw that error, but let's, let's return the body as it is.
So the, the login component can also take that body and process it if it wants.
So this is the implementation for the authenticate case.
Now in the logging component, since there is no authenticate function in the in the user service anymore
and we moved that function to authenticate service.
So we will just call authenticate service authentication service authenticate function.
Then we will we are subscribing to it now we are not going to deal with the body.
We no longer need to call the set, log the end user because this is already been done here in this
authenticate function.
So the the logging component does not have to do anything about it.
All we care is we are receiving a success response than we are calling the navigation to navigate the
homepage.
Now the user service is not used anywhere, so we can remove that from the dependencies and let's clear
the unused imports as well.
Now saving all these changes.
And the tests are passing.
Now let's do the same thing for logout.
And we were calling the logout in now bar.
So we were calling both the authentication service logout to update the state and also the user service
log out to make the API request.
Now let's cut the log out from user service, cutting it from here and let's go to the authentication
service and let's add that request to the to this logout function here.
Just pasting it.
But I'm just going to.
Cut it and paste this one.
So in this log out.
Updating the the logged in user property, updating the local storage and making the API request.
Now in number.
We no longer need to call user service lookup because there is no that function.
So removing that and this user service is not necessary anymore, removing that one as well.
But we need to do one thing here.
So in the logout we have this this request.
And this is a request.
Either we subscribe to this one right here without returning it because we are not doing anything about
the response.
So we can subscribe to hit.
Subscribe to it like this.
We don't care about the response.
Or we could return this one without subscribing and handle the subscription right here.
You could add subscribe right here.
But I'm just going to keep it simple in the component part.
We are just calling this logout function and the authentication service.
Look out.
We'll handle all the necessary actions saving these changes as well.
And the tests are passing.
And if we check the gist, console those tests are passing.
Let's rerun the test.
And here we see all tests are passing.
So with this way, all authentication related actions are moved into the authentication service.
So the components does not have to deal with the moving parts like the making the API request and updating
the authentication state and so on.
It's just calling relevant functions in the authentication service and it will be taken care necessary
actions.
So with this one, we completed our implementation and also we completed our course.
Hopefully you enjoy the course and you'll learn valuable things from this one.
Hopefully these will be useful in your daily work routine.
Thank you for joining this course and I wish you happy and healthy days.